Introduction

Once you have solo attacked some castles, you will probably have realized that a lot of potential 
targets simple have too many troops so that even with superior troop tiers and/or boosts it will 
lead to too many losses if you Solo Attack them. In such situations a rally is often worth considering. 
Rallies are an easy and fun way to score points with alliance members during kill events. This guide 
will explain the important facets of rallies.

How Does a Rally Work

When you select an enemy castle you have the option to Rally. The Rally Leader sets the rally and selects 
the time. This is the time all Rally Fillers have to donate their troops to the rally. Once the timer is 
finished, assuming at least one person has filled the rally, the troops will start marching to the target 
and attack the castle once they arrive.

Rally Leader

The Rally Leader determines the Rally Capacity and the Boosts of the troops.

The Rally Capacity is influenced by the level of your Hall of War and by the Alliance Research Projects 
Massive Rally.

The Combat Boosts are influenced in many different ways and it is best to pay attention to all. This list 
is very similar to the one in the Solo Attack Guide.

There are a number of different ways to get boosts: lord talent points, research, equipment, dragon skills 
and items. You should consider all of these, there are quite some easy to score boosts that can make a 
difference.

Lord Talent Points can provide a large attack, defense and health bonus, especially when your Lord has reached 
a higher level and you have more talent points to assign. The War Tree is where you should assign your points 
before combat.

The Combat research tree gives you valuable troop boosts. Individually they are not high, but they provide 
boosts that are always active for each of your troops. Keep researching those. Note that there is also alliance 
research that provides combat boosts. Encourage your alliance to work on alliance research and make sure you 
contribute plenty yourself.

In the Forge you can craft equipment for your lord. See our Forging Equipment guide for details. Try to make 
sure that for each equipment slot you have a piece of equipment that gives some boosts. The boosts here can be 
significant, e.g. a green Battle Axe already provides (unenhanced) 12% Cavalry and Siege Attack. As you collect 
more materials and scrolls keep checking whether you can enhance your equipment or forge better equipment pieces.

In the Dragon Lair you can upgrade and assign Dragon Skills. Make sure you assign useful Dragon Skills to the 
attack slots and keep upgrading these with Assault Points. When your Dragon upgrades new skill and/or new slots 
might become available.

What you should not forget are an Attack and Defense boost, you probably have some items already, as they come 
as prizes. If you do not, you can purchase them in the shop. Notice there are 3 variations giving 10, 20 and 25% 
Attack or Defense boost. When you expect the battle to be close, you should consider that these boosts (applicable 
to all your troop types) can make a huge difference in both the damage you do (Attack Boost) and your own 
casualties (Defense Boost). Note that in this game it is possible to have an attack and defend boost active at the 
same time.

Rally Filler

For Rally Fillers the amount and tiers of the donated troops are important. The March Capacity determines the amount 
of troops that can be donated. Most important for this is the level of your Stronghold, but in addition you can get 
extra boosts by researching the March Capacity project in the Combat category, assign points to the March Capacity 
projects in the War talent tree, and use the March of Fury Dragon Skill.

Typically the higher Troop tiers are better. Best is to make sure you can train tier 5 troops before filling rallies, 
these are unlocked at level 13 of your troop buildings, which should be relatively easy to reach.

I suggest for rallies to as default work with marches with equal amounts of Infantry, Cavalry, Bowmen and Siege.

Selecting Opponents

Always important to check with your alliance who you can attack and when. It can typically range anywhere from always 
attacking anyone except for allies to no attacking at all unless approved by a r4.

Gold and Alliance loyalty is quite hard to come by and before deciding to teleport to suitable targets I would make very 
sure it is worth it. Better if possible to fight near your hive, even if this means you make some nearby enemies and/or 
have to march for 10-20 minutes. For Rallying this is even more true than for Solo Targets, as you would have to teleport 
with a group to the target and back.

Based on the nationality/language of an alliance, you might try to find targets who are inactive based on the time of day.

Scout first before attacking, to make sure the attack is worth it (are there troops to kill, resources to plunder?), but 
preferably do this when you are close to actually attacking, to minimize the time your target and his alliance members 
have to prepare.

If you can find some targets that are not in a hive, that is preferred, as they cannot easily be reinforced. Pay attention 
to reinforcements coming in after you set the rally, if too many reinforcements come, you might want to considering 
recalling the rally. If you do attack a hive, consider rallying several targets at the same time, possibly add some fake 
rallies (just one troop, or disband before they start marching) as well to confuse opponents.

Only select targets you are confident you can quite easily win. I tend to want to have at least two times the amount of 
troops the target has and attack with the highest possible troops, where the target typically has a lot of lower tier 
troops as well.

Conclusion

This should give you some pointers to start having fun rallying in King of Avalon.
