Game mechanics are not disclosed and it's unlikely that it ever will be.. I can give some general information based on anecdotal observation..

#1 Pretty much ignore power as it's not always indicative of actual battle (offense or defense) capability. The number one thing which can cause big swings, but not move your power rating - equipment. Purple will only increase it by 200k and orange 300k, but their impact can be quite large depending on the items. Also item buffs and VIP can play a big role, but neither ever affect power.. VIP 9-10 gives bonuses, but your rating will never go up.. Buffs (colossal march and savage attack can be huge, but again are silent)

#2 the most important factor in actually being a big hitter is march size. Bigger and bigger is always seems to have the most impact. In mathematical terms - it's a slope greater than 1.. So the impact of increasing 1000 more march isn't always just 1000 more.. the impact seems to be much higher the larger it gets.

#3 In terms of some wild rule of thumb - between tiers of troops - expect about a 1.5 difference.. So 150k t7 would maybe win against 100k t8 - There's no hard and fast rule on this though...

#4 The game strongly favors offense - I've seen 420k troops beat a solid 480k (my troops + reinforcements) - I think this has to do with gear or dragons being combined .. I know everyone inherits benefits of the lead, but I think there's something more going on underneath.

#5 Almost never eat a rally - shield, teleport, let them hit an empty castle.. etc - If you do eat a rally be 100% certain you're going to win. If the numbers don't look strongly in your favor - don't eat it.. they taste terrible

#6 Monsters vs PvP - I can measure exact rally to rally portal damage differences and have done so in another post. So the impact of boosting certain dragon skills and troop balance can weigh things quite a bit. If this carries over to PvP I don't know with certainty.. There's no way to definitively measure that.. I've thought about trying 1 troop battles to see, but the game has tons of weird rounding issues and it may not hold true when dealing with larger numbers.

#7 Infantry is your meat shield - If they fall - you're likely in trouble.. Do *everything* you possibly can to keep those suckers alive.. I strongly prioritize all combat research, alliance research and other things towards this. Every 1% counts..

#8 I've seen many people ignore siege or prioritize bowman - In general I'd agree that they have some of the large visual impact in the game in terms of battle report kills, but each part of the teams has a role.
