Introduction

Large parts of the equipment sets and the talent trees are the same for the three types. 
In the explanations below we focus on the differences.

The Basic gear set is not specific for any of the three types, so we leave this out of 
the comparison.

Berserker

The Berserker is the simplest of the three types. It is focused on dealing as much damage 
as possible with conventional attack.

The corresponding gear sets (Rugged, Wild and Savage) have a high Attack and Strength value 
to achieve, but is lower on Mana. The Berserker gear sets do not have any unique boosts.

Early on in the Berserker Talent Tree there is a Troop Attack I project and near the end a 
Troop Attack II, providing a boost for combat outside of the Labyrinth.

The Talent Skills are Berserker Strike I and II (doing extra damage by sacrifizing some health) 
and Savage Swing (doing direct damage)

Knight

The Knight focuses more on Health and Defense, it can be considered a Tank.

The corresponding gear sets (Gallant, Noble, Heroic) have a high Defense, Health, Physique and 
Wisdom, but are relatively low on Attack. The gear set have as extra boosts the Spirit Earth 
Ability and Spirit Parry Damage. The Parry Damage causes attacker to take damage when they attack 
you. The Earth Ability is used for the Knight Talent Skills.

In the Knight Talent tree there are 4 Knight Parry Damage projects, that increase the Parry Damage 
and Earth Ability.

There are two Troop Health projects that provide Troop Health boosts for combat outside of the 
Labyrinth.

The Talent Skills are Knight Recovery I and II (increasing Earth Ability and recovering Health 
based on the Earth Ability) and Iron Sacrifice (reducing attack to zero while increasing defense 
hugely)

So far I have only used the Knight Recovery I (you need to have many points to unlock the second 
Talent Skill). This Talent Skill has a cooldown timer, which for me meant that I could always 
only cast it once. Since it took less mana that I recover per battle, I just use this talent skill 
whenever I was taking damage during a battle.

Mage

The Mage focuses on doing damage via magic.

The corresponding gear sets (Shaman, Sorcerer, Warlock) have a high Wisdom, Physique and Mana, 
but are relatively low on Health and Strength. The gear set have as extra boosts the Spirit Mana 
Recovery, Spirit Fire Ability and Spirit Arcane Ability. The Fire and Arcane Ability are used for 
the Mage Talent Skills, Mana Recovery influences the amount of Mana that is Recovered after eacht 
battle.

In the Mage Talent tree there are 3 Mage Magic Attack projects, that increase the Magic Attack, 
Fire Ability and Arcane Ability.

There are two Troop Damage projects that increase the damage of your troops for combat outside 
of the Labyrinth.

The Talent Skills are Flame of Fury I and II (increasing Fire Ability and doing extra damage) and 
Dragon Terror (increasing Arcane Ability and doing extra damage).

I have used Flame of Fury I. This one does not have a cooldown timer, so you can cast it as many 
times as you want, as long as you still have mana in theory, however it is better to initially only 
use it so that your mana bar still (almost) fully restores after each battle, so that when you 
enccounter tougher opponents that do more damage, you still have most of your mana.

Best Focus Until Dragon Spirit XP Level 27

If you compare Berserker to the other two types, the others are signicant less in Attack (Knight) 
and Strength and Health (Mage) in return for some benefits that are mostly relevant when you can 
combine it with the Talent Skills. Since the first of these Talent Skills only becomes available 
when you have reached Dragon Spirit XP Level 27, it is best to focus on Berserker early on.

Actually the three Talent Trees are very similar, and if you focus on being able to carry a lot and 
visit a lot of screens, you can take the bottom part of a tree, and until you reach the first Talent 
Skill (when your Dragon Spirit XP level reaches 27), the bottom part of the tree is the same for all 
three trees.

Focussing on Rugged and later Wild equipment set will give you very good values for the basic boosts 
such as Health, Attack and Defense, which will allow you to benefit most from the research you have 
done to increase these with a percentage.

I have had a complete Rugged Equipment Set, but that provided me with no extra set resonance boost. I 
have reported this to the support, they eventually wrote me a complicated reply that I don't fully 
understand. It might mean that set resonance boosts only work for the Warmonger set. I my eyes this is 
setup very misleading in the game.

As soon as I replaced one of the Equipment Pieces of this Blue set with a Sorcerer (Purple) piece I 
performed better in the Labyrinth, so don't worry about getting a complete set with all pieces enhanced 
to level 5 or higher.

If you look purely at the key stats (Attack, Defense, Health) the Mage sets are actually a much better 
match for the Berserker sets than the Knight sets, so if you cannot get complete enhanced Rugged/Wild Sets, 
consider replacing pieces with Shaman/Sorcerer if you have more scrolls. I am trying to provide as much 
information about the gears in the Data section on this website, as I can find, so check it out. If you have 
more Shaman than Rugged scrolls of certain pieces, it might very well be that your enhanced Shaman piece is 
better in (almost) all regards than your non (or lesser) enhanced Rugged piece.

Best Focus After Dragon Spirit XP Level 27

Once you reach Dragon Spirit XP Level 27 you can unlock the first Talent Skill and at that stage it might 
become beneficial to switch your focus from Berserker to either Knight or Mage. The amount of scrolls you 
have of the different types might play an important role in this choice as well.

Ideally you have complete sets, but looking at the boosts certain pieces of equipment are less crucial than 
others. For example a Sorcerer set with a Wild Helmet will still work quite well, since the Sorcerer Mask 
only provides the Spirit Mana as the Mage specific boost. Spirit Mana increases the size of the Mana bar, 
and has some value, but is much less important than Spirit Mana Recovery and Spirit Fire Ability.

Similarly for the Berserker sets Earth Ability and Parry Damage are important, so a Noble Set without the 
Noble Breastplate and Noble Helm can still work ok, especially with an enhanced Wild or Sorcerer alternative, 
while the other pieces of the Noble set are more crucial to its success.

I am just collecting purple scrolls and am no way near to having enough to doing comparison tests. Ideally 
I would like to do some labyrinth runs with a complete Wild, Nobel and Sorcerer set. If I ever get a chance 
to do that, I will report my findings here. It is relatively easy to switch both Equipment sets (if you have 
the scrolls...) and Talent Trees.

Conclusion

I hope this helps you understand the Dragon Spirit better and helps you to get further in the Labyrinth. 
I currently am at level 41 in the Labyrinth and have a mixed purple set (with even still a Blue Weapon), 
and I use the Knight Recovery I Talent Skill, while only my sidearm and accessory are part of the Noble set. 
I have a very limited amount of purple scrolls, hope to be able to focus more later.
