Introduction

Using your farm account for doing only resource production 
and gathering will only get you so far. If you have multiple 
farm accounts using barbarian rallies as well, can generate 
a lot of extra resources.

Note: If you still need to learn the basics of setting up a 
Farm Account, have a look at our basic Farm Account guide first.

Basics

Rallies on Barbarian Camps are a great way to get resources. Often 
players are mostly focussed on the chests, not realizing Barbarian 
rallies are a very easy way to get resources. Too often I have seen 
6 players in a barbarian rally, while two would be sufficient and 
setting 2 extra rallies instead would have gotten the alliance as a 
whole a lot more resources.

The advanced Farm Account usage described in this guide revolves 
around getting the most out of barbarian rallies. This is easiest 
if you have multiple Farm Accounts (I assume 2) of your own, but 
could work well with different players with clear agreement on 
joining barbarian rallies.

Understanding Barbarian Camps

When rallying Barbarian Camps you can click on the opponents to see 
whether you will get Food or Wood. Often you want Food, in which 
case you look for an opponent with Food/Food.

The amount that is distributed is as follows: uptil lvl 12 100k, from 
lvl 13 to 18 200k, from lvl 19 to 24 300k and above 400k. It is good 
to focus on reaching the next level, so make sure you can as soon as 
possible raid lvl 13 camps, and afterwards aim for lvl 19, and ultimately 
25 (although the higher is still better because of the Victory loot, and 
the better Chest).

Account Development

Because of the extra boosts you can get with the Building Prestige Levels 
it is important you upgrade your account to at least level 15, and optionally 
level 16 for the better tier troops. If you have sufficient Prestige Banners 
it should be possible to rally lvl 30 Barbarian Camps with just two accounts.

Upgrade those urban buildings on which you want to use the prestige levels to 
level 15. I prefer to divide the prestige banners between all, so upgrade all 
buildings to level 15. Hall of War is a special case, as this can require quite 
some gold. Make sure that you at least can host a rally with two full marches.

Do all possible Combat research.

Upgrade and enhance the Bowmen Rage, Cavalry Rage and Siege Rage Dragon Skills.

Train lots of troops, ideally enough for two full marches, so that you can do two 
rallies at the same time.

Daily Routine

You should be able to get on the farm accounts twice a day when the stamina bars 
of all your accounts are at 100.

Find a suitable barbarian camp and opponent (look at the level and keep the total 
reward in mind), and look at whether you want food or wood.

Set one rally and either use another device or switch accounts to join that rally. 
If you have enough troops set a rally with the second account as well and join with 
the first account. Do this a couple of times to deplete all your stamina. If you 
are able to kill lvl 19 barbarians this should provide you with 5*300k = 1.5m food 
or wood in damage loot alone, not counting the victory loot and rewards from any 
seasonal event that might be active.

After you depleted your stamina, set your troops out to gather. With this setup you 
probably won't gather food because you will have a relatively high upkeep, unless you 
can transfer it to another account with low/zero upkeep. Probably best to focus on 
Iron and Silver, and Wood if you require it.

Agreements with other Players

This strategy works best if no one else joins your rallies. If you are in a farm alliance 
and several other players join your rallies, this could take a serious bite out of your 
resource profits. If this happens, explain your strategy and suggest they run their own 
rallies so that as a whole the alliance benefits more. If it is difficult or impossible 
to work things out you can always consider setting up your own alliance.

Benefits and Drawbacks

Benefits are that the barbarian rallies can get you resources a lot faster than gathering 
and the resource items from barbarian rallies are safe.

Drawbacks are that it takes you more time to build the accounts to a level that this is 
very beneficial and that it is more time consuming to login and run several rallies compared 
to just sending your troops out to gather.

Conclusion

I hope this gives you some idea how to make advanced use of your farm accounts, to maximize 
the benefit for your main account.


my farm setup:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1zW_QV0D-g8oF-2z-8q3S5r7aO7OfBfzeyjz8HhvzQS8/edit?usp=drivesdk