Introduction

This article should function as a Combat 101 for people new to doing Combat in King of Avalon. 
It gives a very basic explanation about several things you should be aware about before you start 
solo attacking enemy castles.

Troop Types and Tiers

There are four troop types in this game, infantry, cavalry, bowmen and siege. Each of them have 
10 possible tiers (availability depends on the level of your barracks, stables, range and siege 
workshop buildings), with each their own specific statistics. With the exception of Siege all stats 
of higher level tier troops are at least as good as lower level tier troops. For Siege some offer 
better defense, other offer better attack, so you can select the troop that best meets your requirements 
rather than the highest tier for Siege, for the others just grab the highest you have available. 
Although the game is not clear in explaining the exact role of each troop in the battle, experience points 
out it is important to have a significant amount of infantry in your army. Infantry takes most casualties, 
but if you do not have enough, your other troop types will take a lot more casualties. In general I get 
good results in using a balanced army.

Boosts

There are a number of different ways to get boosts: lord talent points, research, equipment, dragon skills 
and items. You should consider all of these, there are quite some easy to score boosts that can make a 
difference.

Lord Talent Points can provide a large attack, defense and health bonus, especially when your Lord has 
reached a higher level and you have more talent points to assign. The War Tree is where you should assign 
your points before combat.

The Combat research tree gives you valuable troop boosts. Individually they are not high, but they provide 
boosts that are always active for each of your troops. Keep researching those. Note that there is also 
alliance research that provides combat boosts. Encourage your alliance to work on alliance research and make 
sure you contribute plenty yourself.

In the Forge you can craft equipment for your lord. See our Forging Equipment guide for details. Try to make 
sure that for each equipment slot you have a piece of equipment that gives some boosts. The boosts here can be 
significant, e.g. a green Battle Axe already provides (unenhanced) 12% Cavalry and Siege Attack. As you collect 
more materials and scrolls keep checking whether you can enhance your equipment or forge better equipment pieces.

In the Dragon Lair you can upgrade and assign Dragon Skills. Make sure you assign useful Dragon Skills to the 
attack slots and keep upgrading these with Assault Points. When your Dragon upgrades new skill and/or new slots 
might become available.

What you should not forget are an Attack and Defense boost, you probably have some items already, as they come as 
prizes. If you do not, you can purchase them in the shop. Notice there are 3 variations giving 10, 20 and 25% 
Attack or Defense boost. When you expect the battle to be close, you should consider that these boosts (applicable 
to all your troop types) can make a huge difference in both the damage you do (Attack Boost) and your own 
casualties (Defense Boost). Note that in this game it is possible to have an attack and defend boost active at the 
same time.

Attack only with one march at a time to make sure your Dragon boosts apply to that march.

March Capacity

The amount of troops you can attack with is very important, this means of course you have to make sure you have 
trained enough troops of each type you plan to use, but also that your March Capacity is as large as you can get it. 
Most important for this is the level of your Stronghold, but in addition you can get extra boosts by researching the 
March Capacity project in the Combat category, assign points to the March Capacity projects in the War talent tree, 
and use the March of Fury Dragon Skill.

Selecting Opponents

Always important to check with your alliance who you can attack and when. It can typically range anywhere from always 
attacking anyone except for allies to no attacking at all unless approved by a r4.

Gold and Alliance credits are quite hard to come by and before deciding to teleport to suitable targets I would make 
very sure it is worth it. Better if possible to fight near your hive, even if this means you make some nearby enemies 
and/or have to march for 10-20 minutes.

Based on the nationality/language of an alliance, you might try to find targets who are inactive based on the time of 
day.

Scout first before attacking, to make sure the attack is worth it (are there troops to kill, resources to plunder?), but 
preferably do this when you are close to actually attacking, to minimize the time your target and his alliance members 
have to prepare.

If you can find some targets that are not in a hive, that is preferred, as they cannot easily be reinforced.

Only select targets you are confident you can quite easily win (significant less troops and weaker troops than you have 
in a single march), in case of doubt, ask your alliance mates to rally.

Conclusion

This should give you some pointers to start having fun solo attacking in King of Avalon.
